Welcome back everyone to the lecture on Cantone and research basics to follow along this lecture as
well as the other lectures in this section.
Make sure you've already created an account on Quanto Appian will start off by using the research notebook
format and then move on to using the Quanto Appian integrated development environment.
Let's go ahead and jump to Quanto in dot com.
Log in and I'll show you how we can use the research note book environment.
OK so here I am at Quanto dot com.
Once you've logged in if you ever need to get back to the home page just go ahead and click on this
Q Or just go to Quanto Appian dot com slash home or we're going to start off with is if you click here
on research we have data sets notebooks and algorithms.
Go ahead and click on notebooks and that will take you to your notebook page.
Now keep in mind you do have a limit on how many notebooks can have open at one time.
There is a limit on your memory usage but for our conditions we're going to stay well below that limit.
So once then load in the notebooks we're gonna open up a new one.
OK so once those are then loaded you should get something that looks like this.
Keep in mind this still technically in beta.
So by the time you're viewing this it may look slightly different.
There's a few key things here that I want to show you.
One is a research memory so you can only have a certain number of notebooks open the pending how much
stuff is open in memory in those notebooks.
As I mentioned for our case we're going to stay well below the limits so we don't have to really worry
about that.
And then you can either create a new text file.
You can create a new folder and then you can actually upload files so you can go ahead and upload the
IPY and B files.
Those are the notebook files we provide for you in case you want to upload those notebooks so you can
use them on the Clintonian platform.
Again those Quanto in notebooks that we have for the section only really work in this Quanto open platform.
There are certain imports that we don't do in the notebooks so they won't work locally.
You'll need to actually use Quanto platform for our case we're going to create a new notebook's.
Go ahead and click on that blue plus sign and this will create a new notebook for us.
OK so once we actually start that we basically have the exact same Jubran notebook format we're familiar
with.
We already can see here we have research memory again 4 percent for just one and two notebooks so it's
actually not that bad.
Want to change this title to something like research basics and then hit OK and I'll rename it for me.
Let me zoom in one more level here.
OK so let's go ahead and get started.
So this notebook format allows us to easily gather information about various securities all within the
Quanto platform.
Now keep in mind this is going to be different than the base coding platform of Quanto in which is the
idea that focuses on actually implementing an backtesting trading strategies.
Right now we're kind of more focused on how do I gather information such as pricing fundamentals etc..
Sort of start by doing a couple of imports here.
You'll notice a lot of the libraries we're used to using are already installed and ready to go for us
on this platform.
So I'll say non-pay S&P Pansy's Peetie and they will do a little bit applauding so I'll say matplotlib
thought pipe plot as Piazzi in the Quanto open environment.
There's no need to do the magic command of Matt plotless in line so you can just run them and the lines
already to go.
All right the first function I want to talk about is get pricing and pretty much all the functions we're
talking about.
We don't need to import them from anywhere.
They're already available for us in the Clintonian notebook.
So the get pricing function provides access to up to 12 years of US equity pricing data.
That's basically just US securities and stocks information and it's the exact same data that's used
by the Quanto it back tester and the get pricing command returns upin this object.
Which is why we had to learn about Panchos and Panas data frames.
So let's actually show you how we can get the pricing.
Let's just say we want to get the pricing for McDonald's or create a variable called Mactan and then
I'm going to use a function get pricing and it's going to take some arguments are going to shift type
here check out the argument but basically it can take a list of symbols or a single symbol or start
an end date and then you can also specify the frequency you want.
So let's go ahead and try this out.
The symbol is MC The McDonald's will say the start date is equal to 2017 0 1 0 1 so the first day of
2017 and let's just have it be one month worth of data so we'll say 2017 020 1 and since we only have
one month here let's go ahead and up the frequency.
So say the frequency you want is actually by the minute so typically we've been dealing with daily data
but we can see here that we can also get frequency data in terms of minutes and then once that's done
if I say Mactan head you can see I get back the information I have open price high low close price volume
price and here I can also see that it's minute by minute.
So 14:31 14:32 14:30 3 and it's a 24 hour time.
Keep that in mind.
And then I also do things like check out info.
It tells me how many columns I got back or how many rows I got back as well.
So around 8000 rose.
So we can see here we can get minute by minute data but more likely usually we'll be working daily data.
Kind of depends on what we're actually doing.
So if you want daily data you can just sit here saying minute go ahead and say daily and we can go back
up to 12 years and we don't really need to go back further than that because that generally adds more
noise than signal.
And for our algorithms viewers will be more than enough.
So we'll go ahead and run this so that we'll get the pricing.
That we have daily data.
So if we check out McDonald's the head of it I can see now it's by day so we are open high low close
price volume and price and all of these have been adjusted for things like dividends and stock splits.
So you don't have to worry about using like an adjusted close price off of this.
It's already taken that into account for you.
So if we want to do plotting we can do something like MacBaren even if we just want to grab a single
call them something like close price say that plot run this and here we can see how the plaudit price
from around the year 2005 to 2017 in pretty much everything we've learned about plotting from Paris
that plotted will be effective here.
So for example if you want to get a distribution of the returns we can say McDonogh grab the close price
say percent change for the arithmetic arithmetic returns and then just call his dram off of this Benz
equal to 100 you can say fig size is equal to let's say 6 by 4.
Run this in aland up seeing a histogram of the daily returns here.
Okay.
So that's the get pricing commands pretty straightforward It feels a lot like Panas data reader or Quando.
You passen the stock start day and they and that frequency information.
So let's move on to symbols.
So by default the symbols function returns the security object for a ticker symbol and you specify a
ticker symbol or even a list of symbols as a string and get a list of security objects back.
So let me show you what that actually looks like.
So if I say let's create a new object we'll say Mikitani E. Q info and I'm going to set that equal to.
I'm going to call the symbols function just have autocomplete in there and we pass in the symbol that
we're a student.
MC The Run that if I check what actual type objects return I can say Mactan ECU info and it's this zip
line assets equity object.
So this object behaves a lot like a dictionary.
So let's go ahead and actually turn it into a dictionary.
That's easy enough to do because all I need to say is if you check the methods available to it you can
say to dicy they'll make it a dictionary and then we get back a dictionary of everything it contains.
So it has an asset name so it knows hey the symbol is the McDonald's Corporation has the clothes day
and day.
It tells you what exchange it's listed on plus the full name of that exchange.
When it was first traded Sometimes you have this information.
It has the I.D. which is going to be important for us later on.
And then we have the start.
And then again the symbol.
So this is something we're using a lot more when we talk about actually developing algorithmic trading
because sometimes companies get delisted and then their ticker symbol gets used by another company or
maybe the company changes name etc..
So what Quanto oping has done so you don't run into errors just using symbol names is everything's listed
as an ID or security ID.
So that's what we're going to be using later on.
We won't really be using symbols that often.
OK.
The last main function we're going to discuss is get fundamentals and the get fundamentals function
provides programmatic access to the Quanto open fundamental database.
And this is one of my favorite functions especially when you do research on a company and the way it
works is the following.
Basically you need to initialize it first.
So we create some variable called fundamentals and then we're in a call in its underscore fundamentals
and accused have autocomplete here.
So you have to first do this in the notebook and this basically is going to initialize the fundamentals.
And based on the data provided from Morningstar this get from the mentals function that we're going
to use later on.
It provides over 600 corporate metrics dating back to 2002.
And that actually matches Quanto Beanz pricing data.
So we're going to walk you through a few examples of how this would actually work.
It's based off sequel alchemy so may seem a little strange at first and you can check out the links
in the note book for further help on grabbing specific fundamental data.
But this is essentially things for saying okay what's the market cap of the company or what's the price
earnings ratio of the company or other things like what is the headquarter city of a company.
So let's go ahead and show you how to use this.
So if I check out fundamentals dots and then hit tab I can see you have a variety of things here so
an income statement index operations valuation.
And essentially these are the main categories of things I can grab.
So earnings ratios earnings report etc. cash flow statements.
So let's go ahead and practice how to get the market cap.
So this is the way you would do it.
First you have to create a query object on say Mike Cleary And then I'm going to say query that fundamentals
object that I just created then I'm going to hit tab here we have the various types of information I
can grab.
So I'm going to grab off valuation and then if you hit dot tab off valuation you can see here the various
things and grab off of that.
So we're going to say market cap.
OK so I run that and then I have my query.
So what I'm going to do is say my underscore will say funds for fundamentals and then we call the get
fundamentals function and just have auto completing here.
We pass in the query we just create it will say my query and then we pass and the date that we're interested
in.
So let's say I want the total market cap as of the first day of 2017 I would run that it may take a
little bit of time depending on how much information you're asking for.
But eventually when you have it you can get back my funds we can call Imphal off of this.
And so once we call info we'll see here we have just one entry on the index and we have five thousand
five hundred fifty one columns.
It says from equity HAMC to equity HGT.
All right.
So what's actually going on here.
Well if you check out my funds the whole thing won't display but whip's my funds underscore.
So the whole thing won't display the interest we have market cap and that essentially every single equity
that was available at this date.
So it is actually going on here while we initialize fundamentals.
And then on fundamentals we grab some sort of category and then off that category we grab a specific
fundamental piece of information such as the market cap and then we wrap that in a query and that becomes
my query then we pass that query into get fundamentals along the dates for what we're interested in.
And then once we get back it grabs this specific fundamental data the market cap for every single equity
that's available at this date.
Now usually you don't want every single possible equity one to do some sort of filtering off for this
and we'll show you how to do that in a second.
But based on this single get fundamentals which is kind of why it took a while we say info and we get
back the market cap for pretty much every single equity that's available at this particular time stamp.
Now if market cap wasn't hit to the specific equity Ill just say none.
So sometimes it's like an exchange traded fund or something.
The market may not make sense for that.
OK.
So we usually do is add some sort of filter.
And let me show you how we can do that.
Let's say I only want big companies so I'm going to create some variable called Big underscore CLP.
And I'm going to find this as only companies that are worth $500 million or more or more so that is
quite a lot of money.
So we should only get a few companies back.
And so we're going to do it.
We're going to call this query function and it's basically available just in the research notebook we're
going to say fundamentals valuation market cap just as we did last time and that offer this we're going
to say that's filter and we can put this on a new line or say that filter and the reason I don't realize
it because I'm wrapping it in parentheses here.
So that's kind of a nice little Python trick if you wrap something in print.
You can go to multiple lines easily.
So then I'm going to say that filter that I'm going to say fundamentals valuation market cap and then
this is where you can do some sort of comparison operator and say Give me the market cap where it's
greater than five hundred billion.
So let's see 500 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3.
And let's put these all together now.
All right.
So that should be giving me back wherever the company's market cap is greater than five hundred billion
dollars.
And you'll notice it went WAY faster this time because there aren't that many companies that actually
fit that.
So let's see we'll say my big results as equal to get fundamentals pass that actual queery So remember
this query is essentially the same thing as we did appear except now I'm adding this special filter
to it.
Okay.
So say get fundamentals big company and then we can pass that any that we want we'll say 2017.
Let me just go a little more recent we'll say the 19th of July so we can run that again.
It runs a lot faster because we're not asking for every single thing back.
I will say my big results run that.
And essentially there's only four companies at this time.
So we have Apple Microsoft.
And then the two types of Google stock or alphabet stock I should say and that is the basic idea behind
using fundamentals.
Let me go ahead and quickly walk you through the help documentation.
Forget fundamentals in case you're interested in more complex queries the Lincoln going to go to let
me just read it for you right now is right here.
It's Quanto Appian dot com help slash fundamentals.
If you go to that link they'll take you to this page where you have fundamental data reference.
So as as as I was mentioning earlier there's over 600 metrics measuring the financial performance of
different companies and they're separate out into 13 categories things like asset classification balance
sheet cash flow statement etc..
So if you're interest and earnings ratios we would end up doing is coming over here.
Fundamental data reference.
Real click on earnings ratio.
That's one of the categories and then off of earnings ratio has these attributes you can filter or search
for using get fundamentals things like the growth in companies diluted earnings per share EPS on a percentage
basis.
So you can do other things like the earnings report category do things like basic average shares or
basic continuous operations et cetera.
So lots of fundamental data here that can be really useful in actually programming or deciding which
companies to invest in.
So this works really well in the notebook environment as far as grabbing specific fundamental data which
you can later on use in your algorithms.
OK.
So that's really the basics of using the research notebook.
There's quite a bit more that it's capable of.
But we'll discuss that later on.
Right now we only really need to understand get fundamentals symbols and then get pricing.
All right thanks everyone and I'll see at the next lecture.